He was an old man, a very successful one.
He'd made a lot of money in his time.
But let's not envy him, because for much of his life he was under a lot of pressure.
His first marriage was a troubled one.
His wife was cold and critical.
He'd raised a large family in the truth.
And some of his sons didn't turn out so well.
A few of his friends weren't there for him when he needed the most.
He lost a child in death.
You may have guessed that we're talking about David, the writer of the 37th Psalm.
I was once young, he said, but now I am old.
So here is an old man taking stock of his life and sharing a secret with us.
What was it that helped him to cope when everything around him was going wrong?
Let's find out.
Let's turn to Psalm 37 and verse 4.
This is the theme text for our discussion, so I'll give you a moment to find that.
Psalm 37 and verse 4.
In David writes, find exquisite delight in Jehovah, and he will grant you the desires of
your heart.
We're going to focus on the first part of the verse at this point.
Find exquisite delight in Jehovah.
Exquisite delight, or maybe you say exquisite, whether you say exquisite or exquisite, we don't
use that expression very much, do we?
But look down at the footnote.
It says, find your greatest joy.
So David is saying, find your greatest joy in Jehovah, and he will give you the desire
of your heart.
And that was David's secret.
He couldn't always count on his family life, and he never knew when a trusted friend
would turn against him, but he did know his God.
He knew that Jehovah would never disappoint him.
Well, that's a good reminder for us, isn't it?
Humans may disappoint.
Jehovah?
Never.
He is our North Star.
And so when we get lost or when we get confused, when we feel we've lost our way, we really
need to look heavenward.
Look to Jehovah and let Jehovah be our greatest joy to know Jehovah is to love him.
Now what do you do when you want to get close to someone, when you want to develop a friendship
with someone?
Well, you find ways to spend time with that person.
You want that person as a friend, and so you go about finding ways to spend time with
that person.
Well, it's the same with Jehovah God.
We want him as our friend, so what do we do?
We look for ways to spend time with him, reading his word, meditating on his word, letting
it sink deeply into our heart.
And then the more we get to know Jehovah, the more we love him, and the more at ease
will be in his presence.
And that's where prayer comes in.
We can develop a friendship with Jehovah that is so close, so intimate, that we can
confide in Jehovah things that we would never, ever tell another human on earth.
And the good news is that Jehovah wants us to get just that close to him.
Well, we had big plans for this summer, didn't we?
Real conventions, regional conventions in all parts of the earth, happy times, warm fellowship,
and then the coronavirus.
Near the end of March, the governing body realized that we were going to have to make some important
adjustments as far as the conventions were concerned.
But what to do?
All of the outlines had been prepared.
Forty-eight of them.
Well, the teaching committee came up with an idea.
Let's have the governing body, and many of the helpers deliver all of the convention
talks on the program, we'll record them, and then the brothers in all parts of the earth
will be able to enjoy the program in safety.
Well this was going to be a tremendous job for a number of Bethel departments.
Sixty members of the broadcasting department here at headquarters worked tirelessly over
a three-week period to schedule and record the program.
And in the branches, thousands of energetic volunteers in our translation departments
produced the program in 400 languages, probably more than 400 languages when it's all done.
And then, forty-four broadcasting departments in the branches also had to share.
So to all those who had to share in making this program possible, all those who were involved
in scheduling and recording and translating, we want to say thank you.
Thank you so very much for all you've done for us.
Now speaking of broadcasting, do you think Jehovah has been preparing us for something
like this pandemic?
Think about this.
A few years ago, the decision was made to set up something called JW Broadcasting.
And at the time, who knew how practical an arrangement that was going to turn out to be?
And who knows what uses JWB will be put to in the future?
Jehovah knows.
Jehovah looks ahead.
Sometimes we don't know ourselves why certain decisions are made or why we are making certain decisions.
But Jehovah knows.
Jehovah is our greatest joy.
And here's another thing.
When the theme for this convention was being chosen, there was no coronavirus on the horizon.
Yet, can you think of a better theme for a convention than this one?
Joy.
What an appropriate theme for a convention.
Now, some of you have lost your jobs.
Others have been very sick during the past few months.
And a few of you have lost loved ones in death.
There's no way you can be happy about those circumstances.
But you can rejoice in your knowledge of Jehovah.
You can rejoice in your knowledge of what Jehovah God has in store for us in the future.
People outside don't have that.
We do.
We rejoice in Jehovah.
And did you notice how well our convention program matched up with the theme for
this year's, this year, the Eurotechs, make disciples, baptizing them?
We had so much information on how to improve on our teaching skills.
What do you think that is?
Could it be that there's a lot more work to do in that respect?
Well, we don't know when the great tribulation is going to come,
but we are determined to keep busy until the end does come.
It wasn't a good idea to have us follow the progress of a Bible student,
Jade, as Nita, overcame one challenge after another.
That was realistic, wasn't it?
And what a transformation.
Jade isn't jaded anymore.
And there was a subtle message in those videos.
We should never, ever trust first impressions.
First impressions can be wrong.
Well, whether you're conducting a study right now or not,
I'm sure you can hardly wait to get back to the field to apply some of those suggestions.
What a wonderful part of the program that was.
But what about other parts of the program?
Do you remember some of these highlights?
Let's watch.
There are millions of Jehovah's Witnesses around the world.
Each finding a way to be joyful.
Despite the trials we face, we can find joy.
In the choices we're making, in the families we're raising,
from the creation we're observing, from the peace we're promoting,
joy is found in the message we're preaching.
Jehovah promises us joy.
Despite the trials we're enduring and persecution we're facing.
He promises us joy through the stand we're taking.
Through anything in life, you can find joy in Jehovah.
He wants you to be happy.
His joy can be yours now and forever.
So will you accept it?
Jehovah has the right to expect that we'll love him even more than we love our husband,
our wife, our son or daughter or our parents.
He also has the right to expect that we'll love him more than we love our job.
A favorite hobby or maybe a sport that we're passionate about.
Jehovah has to come first.
Has your desire to put Jehovah first been tested during this pandemic?
You lost your job and you searched desperately for another one.
Finally, after a long search, you found one.
But it was a job that would require you to miss all your meetings and opportunities
for field service.
What a temptation to take that job.
You went out of work for months.
You felt helpless because a family member is supposed to provide for his family.
He would take a lot of faith for you to refuse that job, pray to Jehovah and then wait.
Hold on a little longer to see what Jehovah would work out for you.
Showing that Jehovah has to come first, even when it comes to providing for our family.
We have the example of the Jews who were returning from Babylon to Jerusalem.
Now captivity in Babylon wasn't as harsh as slavery in Egypt.
Jews in Babylon could build a house, run a business, plant a vineyard, get comfortable
in life.
Some of them even got rich.
Scholars believe that it was in Babylon, that the Jews learned about the art of buying
and selling trade and commerce.
So it would take real faith on their part to leave their house, their business, close friends
and relatives who wanted to remain in Babylon and go to Jerusalem, a city with none of the
glitz of Babylon, a city that most of them had never seen, that would take real faith.
While the returning Jews got off to a great start, they constructed the foundation of
the temple.
But then they ran into problems.
There was danger.
And so how would they show that Jehovah comes first in the face of danger?
Well, they'd keep on building the temple in spite of the danger, but what did they do?
Well, they got scared.
And they talked themselves into believing that it mustn't be Jehovah's will for them
to build the temple.
Why not?
Because it was hard.
So they started looking after themselves, looking after their own interests.
Now remember in Jerusalem, it was in ruins.
It wasn't going to be easy to start a business, plant crops and build a house in a ruined city.
But they didn't say, oh, this is hard.
So it mustn't be Jehovah's will for me to feed my family.
They found a way to feed their family.
Well, they should have had the same determination when it came to Jehovah's worship because
Jehovah has to come first.
Now these were good people.
They had had enough faith to leave Babylon and return to Jerusalem in the first place.
But that first love had cooled off.
And let's see how Jehovah felt about that.
Let's turn to Haggai, chapter 1.
We're going to read a few verses at Haggai, so keep your Bibles open there, please.
We're going to turn to Haggai, chapter 1.
And first of all, we're going to read verses 2 through 6 to see how Jehovah felt about
this choice that the Jews had made, putting themselves ahead of his worship in spite of
danger.
This is what Jehovah's Army says.
These people say, the time has not yet come for the house of Jehovah to be built.
And the word of Jehovah again came through Haggai the Prophet, saying, is it the time
for you to dwell in your panelled houses while this house lies in ruins?
Now this is what Jehovah of Army says, set your heart on your ways.
You have so much seed, but your harvest little.
You eat, but it is not the satisfaction.
You drink, but you do not drink your fill.
You put on clothing, but no one gets warm.
The one who hires himself out puts his wages in a bag full of holes.
Now do you think Jehovah didn't want them to build a house, feed their family?
Of course not, but Jehovah's worship has to come first.
That's what exclusive devotion is all about.
Well, what else do we learn from these verses?
What's Jehovah telling the people?
He's saying, look at you.
Your work can work and work.
You're not getting anywhere.
You're not getting rich, and you aren't even making ends meet.
Why not?
They didn't have the blessing of Jehovah, and it is the blessing of Jehovah that makes
rich.
Now one of the scenes from our dramatic Bible reading illustrates this point very well.
Let's remind ourselves, let's have a look.
Jehovah compares the results of the Jews' self-centered efforts to those of a hired worker
who puts his wages into a moth eaten sack.
Because the Jews are neglecting the house of Jehovah, he holds back his blessing.
The results of the Jews' labor are limited, and their lives lack joy.
Evidently some try to feel that void by beautifying their own homes.
Material things cannot satisfy spiritual needs.
Can we see the warning here for us?
It's not wrong to enjoy nice things, but material things cannot bring us true and lasting
joy, especially if we neglect Jehovah's work to obtain them.
Now there's nothing wrong with buying new things.
I don't think many of us still have a black and white TV.
The point is, Jehovah must come first.
And remember, the Jews were facing stiff opposition.
There was danger.
So I want you to notice a little detail as we read Haggai 1, 7, and 8.
I told you to keep your Bibles open, I didn't, but I have forgot it again.
Haggai 1, verses 7 and 8.
Now notice, the Jews are in danger.
There are opposers.
But we're looking for a little detail that should have reassured the Jews, in verses
7 and 8.
This is what Jehovah of armies says.
Set your heart on your ways.
Go up to the mountain and bring in lumber and build the house so that I may take pleasure
in it, and I may be glorified, Jehovah says.
Did you see it?
Jehovah of armies?
Now that expression is repeated over and over again in the book of Haggai, and it should
have reassured the Jews that their enemies were nothing in comparison with Jehovah and
his armies.
This is Jehovah telling the Jews, go ahead, build the temple.
I have your back.
Find your greatest joy in Jehovah.
That's really the theme that we're talking about today.
Let's talk about it.
And let's talk about some aspects of this very important theme.
First of all, we'll talk about our relationship with Jehovah.
That's so important.
Now in the introduction to this talk, we mentioned David.
He had a lot of problems, maybe more than most of us, and yet he never lost his joy.
He found joy in his relationship with Jehovah.
Now his physical living conditions weren't always the best.
When King Saul was alive, a David was on the run most of the time.
Where did he sleep?
In a cave?
In a place difficult to approach.
Just anywhere that was safe.
And then at times David and his men ran low on food, sometimes they ran out of food.
Do you know the feeling?
Have you been low on food during this pandemic?
David couldn't even enjoy a normal married life because he'd married the daughter of Saul,
but then Saul had given her to another man.
So what got him through all that?
His relationship with Jehovah.
Jehovah was the constant in his life.
And you can just feel the unbreakable bond between Jehovah and David when you read the 16th
Psalm.
Now there's something very interesting about this Psalm.
Let's turn there.
And first of all, we're just going to look at verse 1 briefly.
Psalm 16 had noticed in verse 1 the situation that David is in.
He is in need of protection.
In some unsated way, David is in danger.
But you know what's interesting about this Psalm?
For the rest of it, he doesn't dwell on his problems.
He dwells on the way Jehovah is helping him with his problems.
Notice verse 8.
David says, I keep Jehovah before me constantly.
Because he is at my right hand, I will never be shaken.
So with his eyes of faith, David could see Jehovah beside him, protecting him.
Now if we can have that vision, we're not going to be afraid of anything or anyone.
Are we?
Now find your greatest Jehovah.
Here's a man who is in need of protection.
Here's a man who feels he's in danger.
Notice verse 9.
So my heart rejoices.
My whole being is joyful.
And I reside in security.
He's in danger in some way.
And yet he feels safe.
He feels secure.
In Notice verse 10, usually we apply verse 10 to the resurrection of Jesus.
But think of it from David's perspective.
For you will not leave me in the grave.
David knew that even if somehow he were to die, Jehovah would not leave him in the grave.
He would resurrect him.
At the end of verse 11, beautiful expression, in your presence is abundant joy.
You notice the expressions?
My heart rejoices.
My whole being is joyful.
In your presence is abundant joy.
David's life wasn't always easy.
But feeling that he was in the presence of Jehovah, feeling the support of Jehovah, helped
him to get through it and to get through it with joy.
Well, your life isn't always easy.
I'm sure you've had many anxious moments during this pandemic.
But then you turn away from your problems.
You focused on Jehovah God and you reset your joy returned.
How many reasons for joy can you think of?
The song says they're abundant.
Let's think of a few.
Here's one.
Jesus said, no man.
No man can come to me unless the Father draws him.
Now think what that means.
Jehovah saw something in you that he loves.
He looked down and he said, I want that person in the new world.
Don't try to argue with Jehovah.
Don't say, you made a mistake.
You don't mean me.
You must mean the fellow next to me, but me, I'm not worth it.
Jehovah drew you to the truth, accept it, accept it, God loves you.
Now that is a reason for joy.
Another reason for joy is that Jehovah answers our prayers.
He's always available, always ready to listen.
We can pray in any language at any time.
But Jehovah won't always do what we ask him to do, but he will always listen.
We find joy in Jehovah's service because he's reasonable in what he expects of us.
You come home after a long day's work, you're exhausted, worn out, stressed out.
You come home from field service or from a meeting, you're refreshed.
Jehovah is reasonable.
We're also confident that Jehovah will provide our food and clothing no matter how dire the situation gets.
Now, what he provides might not always be fancy, but it'll always be enough.
It'll always be adequate to get us through.
And we should always be grateful for anything Jehovah provides, no matter how simple it might be.
A researcher once drew a distinction between Jehovah's witnesses and some others who were in concentration camps in Nazi Germany.
Anon witness might say, where is the God?
All I have to eat is this miserable piece of bread.
A witness in the same camp might say, Oh, Jehovah, thank you.
I have a piece of bread to eat.
I can eat and regain my strength and live just a little longer to serve you and maybe I'll be able to share some of my bread with someone else.
The conclusion of the researcher will receive the piece of bread, but it was all in the point of view.
The witness had a spiritual point of view and the witness was grateful for even a simple provision that Jehovah had made.
Well, during this pandemic, it could be that your menu has been greatly simplified.
Maybe you haven't been able to eat the way you would normally eat.
If you had just pasta or rice to eat, you didn't say, Look at this, all I have to eat is pasta, all I have to eat is rice.
You thanked Jehovah for the rice or for the pasta.
You were grateful for the provisions and you realized that no matter how simple, these provisions came from Jehovah.
Jehovah has also given us a loving spiritual family and I think many of us have come to the conclusion that we never really understood what a loving spiritual family we have until this pandemic.
A young married couple were both afflicted with the coronavirus.
Both of them, well how would they eat? They couldn't go out shopping and they couldn't see anyone.
The brother said, We had groceries at the door constantly.
The wife says, I felt I had Jehovah's and everyone else's arms wrapped around me.
Social distancing doesn't apply to Jehovah. He can wrap his arms around anyone.
Many of our brothers have been reconnecting with long last return visits and I'm believing family members and starting Bible studies with them.
And as you probably know, meeting attendance has increased and inactive and disfellowship persons are also trying to draw close to Jehovah.
One disfellowship person said, I view this as one last warning from Jehovah.
Now just a word to any who may be listening, who are no longer serving Jehovah.
What are you waiting for? God loves you. God wants you to return.
He wants to put his arms around you once more. So please take advantage of the invitation and come back.
And please don't give in to the idea, well I've done nothing up to now and now there's been a pandemic and if I come back to the truth, well Jehovah is not going to accept me.
Read your Bible. You'll find that in many cases it was a disaster of some sort that caused people to come to their senses and return to Jehovah
and Jehovah lovingly accepted them. Think of Manasseh as an example.
Many have commented that they've actually drawn closer to their brothers and sisters during this pandemic.
Many, many say, I feel more cared for than ever.
We find joy in our relationship with Jehovah and with our brothers.
Now we were talking about David. He said in Psalm 16 that there is abundant joy in Jehovah.
But what was his joy based on? It wasn't based on his privileges.
David didn't become king for years, but it was on his relationship with Jehovah.
So this is a good example for us. It may be that there's a privilege that you've been expecting that seems a long time coming.
What do you do in the meantime? Keep working on your relationship with Jehovah.
Keep strengthening that relationship. It'll be the best investment you've ever made.
And don't forget, the greatest privilege any of us can have is to bear the name of Jehovah to be called one of Jehovah's witnesses
and we're part of a family of brothers and sisters who love us and who would even risk their lives for us.
So we've discussed finding joy in our relationship with Jehovah.
Let's consider a second aspect. And that is finding joy in the Bible, finding joy in God's written Word.
We get to know Jehovah best by reading His Word and meditating on it.
Now in recent times, the congregation Bible reading has been shortened and there's a good reason for that.
It's not so we can get our Bible reading over with and get on to other things.
It's so that we will take our time, slow down, meditate on what we're reading, chew it up, digest it thoroughly.
This is Jehovah talking to you and to me, sharing His thoughts with us.
This is amazing and we need to appreciate it.
Now one way that we can enjoy our Bible reading is to make the connection between what we're reading now
and what we've read in the past and see how they match up.
Let's take an example, just a short one.
Turn to Numbers 12, Numbers 12, and verses 1 and 2.
I think the setting is pretty self-explanatory, so Numbers 12, verses 1 and 2.
Now Miriam and Aaron began to speak against Moses because of the Cushite wife he had married
for he had taken a Cushite wife.
They were saying, is it only by Moses that Jehovah has spoken?
Has he not also spoken through us?
So what was their argument?
Basically, in plain English, their argument was that Moses was hogging the limelight,
that he wanted to be the center of attention.
And now, is that true?
In the previous chapter, chapter 11, what do we read?
Moses willingly shares his authority with 70 of the men of the elders of Israel.
So there was no serious question about Moses wanting to have the limelight.
Moses was a humble man.
But now, this is Numbers 12.
This is Aaron questioning Moses' authority.
But we can learn a little bit more about this from something that is tucked far away in
the book of Deuteronomy.
Let's turn to Deuteronomy chapter 9.
And we're going to see if we can learn something about Aaron and why Aaron's attitude
was so shocking.
Deuteronomy chapter 9 and verse 20.
This is a revelation.
This is Moses, in the very last month of his life, talking to the Israelites.
And he says, Jehovah was so angry with Aaron that he was ready to annihilate him.
But I made supplication for Aaron.
Aaron owed his life to Moses, and yet he dares question Moses' leadership of the nation
of Israel.
Aaron is really shocking.
Now what does this teach you about Moses?
He's a very humble man.
And he's not quick to take credit for things.
Now why do we say that?
When Moses wrote the book of Exodus and the story of the golden calf, he never mentioned
that Jehovah wanted to annihilate Aaron for his part in the golden calf incident.
He was still alive, and Moses spared Aaron that indignity.
It's only after Aaron's death, and in the very last month of Moses' life that we learn
about it, doesn't that tell you something about how kind and humble Moses was?
So this is just to illustrate the fact that if we try to take one point that we've learned
in the past and connect it up with what we're reading now, it will often help the Bible
reading to come alive.
Now let's consider some of the things that God's Word has done for us.
Do you remember what it was like before you came into the truth?
A favorite relative of yours who was happily married lost her husband in death.
At the funeral, a priest told her that her husband was in purgatory, and unless the widow
paid up, he was going to stay there for a long time.
She just lost her husband.
How comforting was that?
But then you started studying the Bible.
You came to Romans chapter 6 and verse 7.
The one who has died has been acquitted from his sin, acquitted from his sin, and your
Bible teacher explained what that means.
It means that when you die, the dead is paid.
You don't go on paying after death.
You don't suffer in hell, and you don't suffer in purgatory.
That one Bible verse could completely change your view of what happens at death.
On the other hand, maybe you grew up in a family where evolution was the order of the day.
So no hope, no hope for the future.
This life is all there is.
Then you came to learn that you have a Heavenly Father who loves you very much, and who wants
to give you a future and a hope.
What a joy it was to discover Jehovah.
Some of us grew up in a family where the parents didn't get along so well.
We couldn't point to them and say now that is how a man should treat his wife, or that
is how a woman should treat her husband.
We just didn't get along.
We needed Jehovah.
We needed the Bible.
We needed Jehovah's organization to teach us how to have a happy family life.
There's more.
Recently a clergyman was asked by a journalist why pandemics like the coronavirus occur.
And the clergyman answered, well, suffering is part of life.
That didn't answer the question.
The journalist wasn't asking, do we suffer?
The journalist knew that we suffer.
The journalist wanted to know, why do we suffer?
He didn't get an answer.
A professor of New Testament theology was asked the same question, why do we suffer?
Do you know what he said?
Everybody suffers.
God suffers.
What kind of an answer is that?
How happy we are to have the answers to those questions from the Bible.
Now speaking about God's written word, since 1966, Jehovah's organization has made the
Bible come alive in the most outstanding way through the Bible dramas.
It really has made the Bible come alive, hasn't it?
It's helped us to visualize what life was like in Bible times, and we've come to realize
that people living in Bible times weren't really so very different from people who
were living today.
Let's review a few scenes and see what lessons we can glean.
Have a look.
Hey, Ham.
We had a visitor last night.
It was your wife.
Or should I say your former wife?
Hey, Ham.
Don't you care how you've hurt your innocent mate?
How can you be so hardhearted?
Look, Moses said, if you find something indecent with your wife, a man must write a certificate
divorce, hand it to her, and dismiss her.
If giving me no children is an indecent than what is, besides I'm tired of living with
her, I'm marrying Gisla today, Gisla.
That Moe by girl?
I heard you bind yourself with an oath and a curse not to take away from the nations.
God's law says they will turn your sons away from following me to serve other gods.
When Jehovah's anger will blaze against you, who are you to counsel me?
Every man must find his own joy and I intend to find mine.
Hey, Ham.
Only Jehovah can give true joy.
Do you really think you can give yourself more joy than he can?
What's the lesson?
Our greatest joy comes when we obey Jehovah.
Let's look again.
Come back here.
You have to listen to me.
Your father.
What's wrong with your children?
They don't like coming to the temple.
Oh, sweetie.
Why don't you like it?
To walk out here.
Come back here now.
I'm sorry, my lord.
My wife speaks very little Hebrew.
Did you not swear?
Never to marry someone who doesn't serve Jehovah.
Nehemiah.
Nobody cares.
Did you not?
Yes.
Why have you ignored the command of Jehovah?
And you're a whole no.
Let me go.
No wonder your children don't love Jehovah.
Did you imagine that you could succeed without Jehovah's blessing?
I prayed for Jehovah's blessing.
Did you?
But you didn't obey him.
Rahim, how can Jehovah bless something that is against his will?
And the lesson here, Jehovah doesn't answer prayers that are not in harmony with his will.
And again.
What was that all about?
Rahim refuses to move into Jerusalem.
And he wants us to support him.
What did you say?
I told him, he and Maya's doing Jehovah's will.
Rahim doesn't understand how happy he could be if he would just follow Jehovah's direction.
So we will move if we're selected.
Yes, I'd rather be like Nehemiah and like Rahim.
You agree?
Yes.
The lesson?
Happy families follow Jehovah's direction.
Well, there are a lot more lessons to be learned from this drama.
And you can discover them as you review it at home.
You guessed it, we're releasing the drama today.
You can access it following this talk.
The chairman will show you how.
You may applaud.
So we find joy in our relationship with Jehovah.
We find joy in studying his word and discovering beautiful things in his word.
Now what about Jehovah's name?
Can we find joy in Jehovah's name as well?
Particularly in the last few years, a lot of emphasis has been placed on Jehovah's name
while at Warwick, in the museum, we even have an exhibit about the divine name.
Now why do you suppose that is?
Why do you think there's so much emphasis on God's name?
Well, Jehovah loves his name and he loves those who love his name.
That's something we discover when we read Malachi chapter 3, Malachi chapter 3 and
verse 16.
I'll give you a moment.
Malachi chapter 3 and verse 16.
At that time, those who fear Jehovah spoke with one another, each one with his companion
and Jehovah kept paying attention and listening.
And a book of remembrance was written before him for those fearing Jehovah and noticed
this and for those meditating on his name.
And then in chapter 4 and verse 2, Jehovah praises those who honor his name.
Now let's go back to this expression, those meditating on his name.
What do you think that means?
Surely, it means more than just accepting that God has a name.
We know that.
The Jews and Malachi's day, even the unfaithful ones, knew that.
But surely it means meditating on the meaning of God's name and meditating on the rule
that we can have in vindicating his name.
As you know, many scholars believe that Jehovah's name means he causes to become.
Jehovah can become whatever he needs to become.
And he can make you become whatever he needs you to be.
Now in the days of Israel, what did Jehovah need?
Often he needed prophets.
Where did he get them?
From ordinary people.
He took a very shy young man named Jeremiah and turned him into a bold and courageous prophet
and he did the same with a farmer named Amos.
You could tell Jehovah what you can and can't do.
You might be surprised about what you can do if you just put yourself in Jehovah's hands.
How many in this audience once said, I could never preach in norador.
I could never pioneer.
I could never be a missionary.
I could never serve with a need is great.
Well, Jehovah knew better.
We can trust Jehovah in what he promises to do.
He will always keep his promises.
Now when you go through the Hebrew scriptures, you find certain expressions over and over again.
The Jews rebel against Jehovah.
They do terrible things, sometimes disgusting things.
And you, the reader, are saying, Jehovah, you really ought to annihilate these people.
It's terrible what they're doing, but then Jehovah reconsideres why?
For the sake of my promise that I made to Abraham, for the sake of the covenant that
I made with my servant David, for the sake of my name, to Jehovah a promise is a promise.
He promised Abraham and David that he wouldn't forsake their offspring.
And he meant what he said.
Now think what that means.
Nothing will make Jehovah go back on his word.
When Jehovah promises that he's going to take this earth and turn it into a paradise,
you can take that to the bank.
Jehovah will keep his promise.
How has Jehovah shown that a promise is a promise during this convention?
What did he promise?
My servants will eat.
And the governing body had to find a way to serve the food.
Jehovah provided the food.
He provided it in abundance.
And we thank him for it.
All praise goes to Jehovah for this convention program.
Now when we first discovered that God has a name, it was a turning point for many of us.
A circuit overseer was going from door to door one morning.
And at one door, a teenage boy answered, he announced that his parents were not at home.
And the circuit overseer said, well, just before I leave, I'd like to show you something.
And he showed the boy Jehovah's name in the Bible, Psalm 8318.
The boy took the Bible to have a closer look, turned around, went into the house, and
shut the door.
With the circuit overseer's Bible, the circuit overseer waited, and waited, and he thought
he'd lost his Bible.
But then the boy's mother came to the door, and she apologized for pretending that she wasn't
home.
But she said she had been astonished to learn that God has a name, that led to a good witness.
Well, what else do we know about God's name?
The Bible says that the name of Jehovah is a strong tower, and we're going to be able
to count on Jehovah during the attack of Gog of May Gog.
When Gog attacks, Jehovah is going to vindicate himself, he is going to protect his people
for the sake of his name, and that's another reason for us to love Jehovah's name, to
rejoice in his name, because his name is involved Jehovah is going to protect his people.
Well when we talk about the attack of Gog of May Gog, does it make you kind of nervous?
Here are a couple of things to think about.
First of all, whose idea is it for Gog to attack when he does?
Let's find out.
Ezekiel chapter 38, and we're going to start with verse 4.
Ezekiel 38, beginning with verse 4, now this is Jehovah talking to that coalition of nations
known collectively as Gog.
And I want you to pay particular attention to the first part of the verse, that's verse
4.
Jehovah says to Gog, I will turn you around and put hooks in your jaws and bring you out
with all your army.
Now think about that, I will turn you around.
It sounds like Gog was headed in the opposite direction, but then Jehovah turns him around
and he draws him out to attack.
So what does that tell you?
The timing of the attack is Jehovah's.
Now that doesn't mean that Gog of May Gog had no intention of attacking God's people.
He was planning to attack at some point, but it's the timing of the attack, that's
Jehovah's.
The publisher book explains it this way.
It says, as if putting hooks in Gog's jaws and leading him along, at some point following
the destruction of Babylon the Great, Jehovah may in some way lure the nations into carrying
out what is already in their hearts.
Jehovah will thus set the stage for the attack that leads to Armageddon.
So what are we worried about?
Everything is happening according to Jehovah's purpose.
Now when we read verses 10 through 12, we see what Gog has in mind.
Ezekiel 38 verses 10 through 12.
And then leave your Bibles open because we'll read one more verse.
Versus 10 to 12, it says, this is what the sovereign Lord Jehovah says.
In that day, thoughts will come into your heart.
I wonder who put them there?
And you will devise an evil plan.
You will say, I will invade the land of unprotected settlements.
I will come against those living in security, without disturbance, all of them living in
settlements unprotected by walls, bars, or gates.
It will be to take much spoil and plunder.
But how will it all work out?
Verse 23.
And I, that is Jehovah, I will certainly magnify myself and sanctify myself and make myself
known before the eyes of many nations, and they will have to know that I am Jehovah.
So do we learn?
Everything is under control.
There's no need to panic.
One is going according to schedule, Jehovah's schedule.
So that's the first thing.
There's another thing.
What precedes the attack of Gog of Megog?
What did we read in the pure worship book?
The destruction of Babel and the Great.
Now have you ever considered how that destruction is going to fortify your faith?
It's going to strengthen you so that you're able to endure the attack of Gog of Megog?
Think about it this way.
What other religious organization foretells the destruction of a world empire of false religion?
Were the only ones, because the others are all part of Babel and the Great.
They're not going to foretell the destruction in the future.
So the destruction is going to be a surprise to everyone, but Jehovah's witnesses.
And when it occurs, there'll be no doubt in your mind that you're on the winning side,
that you're on Jehovah's side.
Some brothers get all upset over some detail.
They don't think the organization has the right take on.
It might be the pronunciation of God's name, or the meaning of that name, or the meaning
of a single verse in the Scriptures.
They get all upset.
They get obsessed over one detail, and it interferes with their worship.
But when Babel and the Great goes down, will there be any doubt as to which channel Jehovah
God has been using all this time to do his well?
You will be so glad that you're on the winning side.
Of course it is sobering to think about the final attack of Gog of Megag on God's people,
but it shouldn't take away our joy.
Nehemiah 8 verse 10, it says, the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.
Joy is actually a protection for us.
Now did Nehemiah need a stronghold?
You know the answer to that.
His life was being threatened, pagan inhabitants of the land wanted to kill him.
And then there were problems in the congregation.
Some of the elders weren't respecting Jehovah's law on marriage, and the Sabbath wasn't
being observed.
And that was one of the reasons why the Jews went into captivity in the first place.
There were problems, but Nehemiah didn't allow those problems to rob him of his joy.
We too can be joyful.
And when we're under a lot of pressure, our joy doesn't depend on our circumstances.
Joy helped Jesus to endure a torturous stake.
Joy motivated the apostles to keep preaching even after they've been beaten.
The joy of Jehovah can help you to keep preaching, in spite of indifference, persecution,
or any other obstacle.
Well, maybe you feel that's what I need.
I need more joy.
Well, joy is an aspect of the fruitage of the Spirit.
So when you need more joy, what do you do?
How do you get more of Jehovah's Spirit?
You ask for it, Father, give me more joy.
I want to be joyful in my service.
I want to rejoice in you.
At the beginning of this talk, we read Psalm 37.4.
And we focused particularly on the first part of the verse, rejoicing in Jehovah.
Now, let's turn to the second part of the verse now.
Psalm 37 and verse 4.
And focus on that part for just a moment.
So Psalm 37.4, the first part says, find exquisite delight in Jehovah.
Amen.
And he will grant you the desires of your heart.
What does your heart desire?
What are you looking forward to in the new world?
Is it owning your own home?
In some countries, maybe just having enough food to eat.
Are you looking forward to doing work that you really enjoy or learning how to do something
really well?
Maybe you're older now and you're looking forward to waking up every morning without pain.
And without wondering, I wonder what this pain means.
I wonder if I have something serious and never, ever having to think about death again.
Are you looking forward to conducting a Bible study with an unbelieving relative who returns
or maybe with some historical figure?
You know, this weekend, we learned that even faithful men of old, we're going to have
to adapt to a different way of life and learn how to worship Jehovah in a way that will
be acceptable to him, then, no Abraham.
That child does not need to be circumcised.
David, you're not a king anymore.
If you want a glass of water, you have to get up and get it yourself.
Samuel, I know you're grateful to be resurrected.
But we don't offer animal sacrifices anymore.
So please, put that knife down and leave that bull alone.
Yes, there are going to be adjustments that have to be made.
And what about living conditions?
Where would you prefer to live in the new world?
Maybe you loved the country.
And if you're assigned to live in the country, you'll be very happy.
But suppose you loved the country, but you're assigned to live in a city.
Well, you can learn to love the city.
Jehovah can help you to become whatever you need to become.
Whatever you're given to do in the new world is going to be a blessing.
Jehovah gives good gifts and perfect presence to his servants.
And so Jehovah is going to make arrangements that are going to be for the ultimate good
of all mankind.
Now we don't know what arrangements will be made to clean up the earth just after the
great tribulation, but we do know they'll be worked to do.
And you may have the privilege of sharing in that.
And think how you'll feel as you begin to move closer to perfection, both in mind and
in body.
At that time, David's words recorded at Psalm 139.14 are going to take on greater meaning.
This is the last verse we're going to read during this convention.
I'd like you to follow along.
Psalm 139, and verse 14.
Now this is imperfect David writing.
Psalm 139.14, I praise you because in an awe-inspiring way, I am wonderfully made.
Your works are wonderful.
I know this very well.
And was impressed by the way his imperfect body function.
Can you imagine how he'll feel when he's perfect?
You'll probably write another Psalm.
Well, how do we sum up this heart-staring convention?
The best way I can think of is for you to enjoy one final video, highlighting our reasons
for joy now and for the future.
Now, enjoy the video, but pay attention to the music because we're going to be singing
that original song at the end of this program.
We want everyone to sing.
Everyone must sing, no just moving the lips, no faking, sing, but enjoy the video as well.
The stars that fill us, summer night, look down from our bow, the beauty of the day
and night, you fashioned with love.
Your hands prepared the land and sea, and everything that came to be, broad joy to your
heart.
There is joy in your creation, in the message of salvation, and the paradise to go.
But to have your love is a real and lasting treasure.
You will will prove to be part of the things we hear and touch and see, and feel deep
inside.
You gave us such a perfect start, eternity in every heart and joy in our creation, in
the message of salvation and the paradise.
But to have your love is a real and lasting treasure.
You will all will prove to be part of the things we hear and touch and see, and feel
deep inside.
You will all will prove to be part of the things we hear and touch and see, and feel deep
inside.
After that touching video, what more is there to say?
Find your greatest joy in Jehovah.
Rejoice.
Our deliverance is near.